matrix multiplication is really useful
since you can pack a lot of computation
into just one matrix multiplication
operation but you should be careful of
how you use them in this video
I want to tell you about a few
properties of matrix multiplication when
working with just real numbers or when
working with scalars multiplication is
commutative and what I mean by that is
if you take 3 times 5 that is equal to 5
times 3 and the ordering of this
multiplication doesn't matter and this
is called the commutative property of
multiplication of real numbers it turns
out this property they can you know
reverse the order in which you multiply
things this is not true for matrix
multiplication so concretely if a and B
are matrices then in general a times B
is not equal to B times a so just be
careful that there's not okay to
arbitrarily reverse the order in which
you multiply matrices so we say that
matrix multiplication is not commutative
it's a fancy way of saying it as a
concrete example here are two matrices
this matrix one 100 times Oh - oh and if
you multiply these two matrices you get
this result on the right now let's swap
around the order of these two matrices
so I'm going to you have taken these two
matrices and just reverse them it turns
out if you multiply these two matrices
you get the second answer on the right
and you know well clearly where these
these two matrices are not equal to each
other so in fact in general if you have
a matrix operation like a times B if a
is an M by n matrix and B is an N by M
matrix just as an example then it turns
out that the matrix a times B right is
going to be an M by M matrix whereas the
matrix B times a is going to be an
n-by-n matrix so the dimensions don't
even match right so if a times B and B
times a may not even be the same
dimension in the example on the Left I
have all two-by-two matrices so the
dimensions were the same but you know in
general reversing the order of the
matrices can even change the dimension
of the outcome so matrix multiplication
is not commutative here's the next
property I want to talk about so when
talking about real numbers or scalars
let's say I have 3 times 5 times 2 I can
either multiply 5 times 2 first and I
can compute this as 3 times 10 or I can
multiply 3 times 5 first and I can
compute this as you know 15 times 2 and
both of these give you the same answer
right each both of these is equal to 30
so so if it doesn't matter whether I
multiply five times two first or whether
I multiply 3 times 5 first because sort
of well 3 times 5 times 2 is equal to 3
times 5 times 2 and this is called the
associative property of row number
multiplication it turns out that matrix
multiplication is associative
so concretely let's say I have a product
of three matrices a times B times C then
I can compute this either as a times B
times C or I can compute this as a times
B times C and these will actually give
me the same answer I'm not going to
prove this but you just take my word for
it I guess so just be clear what I mean
by these two cases let's look at the
first one right this first case what I
mean by that is if you actually want to
compute a times B times C what you can
do is you can first compute B times C so
that D equals B times C then compute a
times D and so this is you're really
computing a times B times C or for this
second case you can compute this as you
can set e
a times B then compete a time C and this
is then the same as you know a times B
times C and it turns out that both of
these both of these options will give
you this guaranteed to give you the same
answer and so we say that matrix
multiplication does enjoy the
associative property okay and don't
worry about the terminology associative
and commutative that's what it's called
but I'm not really gonna use a certain
ology later in this class so don't worry
about memorizing those terms finally I
want to tell you about the identity
matrix which is a special matrix so
let's again make the analogy to what we
know of roll numbers so in when dealing
with real numbers or of scalar numbers
the number one is you can think of it as
the identity of multiplication and what
I mean by that is that for any number Z
you know the number one times Z is equal
to Z times 1 and that's just equal to
the number Z right for any for any row
number Z so one is the identity
operation and sort of satisfies this
equation so it turns out that that's in
the space of matrices that an identity
matrix as well and is usually denoted I
or sometimes we write to this I of n by
n we want to make explicit the dimension
so I subscript n by n this team and by n
identity matrix and so there's a
different identity matrix for each
dimension N and here are a few examples
here's the 2 by 2 identity matrix here's
the 3 by 3 identity matrix here's the 4
by 4 identity matrix so the identity
matrix has the property that it has ones
along the diagonals right and so on and
0 everywhere else and so by the way the
one by one identity matrix you know it's
just a number one this is one by one
matrix was just 1 in it so it's not very
interesting identity matrix and
informally when I or others are being
sloppy very often
right the identity matrices the final
tation right draw square brackets just
write 1 1 1 1 and then well maybe
somewhat sloppily write a bunch of zeros
there and these zeros on the business
you know this big zero and this big zero
that's meant to denote that this matrix
is 0 everywhere except for the diagonal
so this is just how you know my sloppy
then you write the identity matrix and
it turns out that the identity matrix s
is property that for any matrix a a
times identity equals I times a equals a
so that's a lot like this equation that
we had up here right so that you know
one x equals E times 1 equals ESL so I
times 8 equals a times I equals a just
make sure we have the dimensions right
so if a is an M by n matrix then this
identity matrix here that's an N by n
identity matrix
and if is n by n then this identity
matrix right for matrix multiplication
make sense that has been M by M matrix
because this M has a match up that M and
in either case the outcome of this
process as you get back to matrix a
which is M by n so whenever we write the
identity matrix I you know very often
the dimension right will be implicit
from the context so these two eyes
they're actually different dimension
matrices one may be n by n the other is
n by M but when we want to make the
dimension of the matrix explicit then
sometimes the right to this I subscript
n by M kind of like we had up here there
very often the dimension will be
implicit finally doesn't point out that
earlier i said that a times B is not in
general equal to B times a right then
you know that for most matrices a and B
this is not true but when B is the
identity matrix this does hold true that
a time's the identity matrix the Xindi
equal to identity times
it's just that you know this is not true
for other matrices B in general so
that's it for the properties of matrix
multiplication and the special matrices
like the identity matrix I want to tell
you about in the next and final video on
our linear algebra review I'm going to
quickly tell you about a couple of
special matrix operations and after that
you need everything you need to know
about in linear algebra for this course